GNU Software on the Amiga			last updated 27 May 91
by Leonard Norrgard <vinsci@nic.funet.fi>

Ports to the Amiga of the GNU C compiler (GCC) and related tools can
be anonymously ftped from various archives, listed below.  Work is
currently in progress which eventually will lead to a merge with the
official GCC distribution (this is possible due to the very few
changes needed).  GNU Emacs is also available in early versions, with
a new release said to appear soon.

Note that Commodore-Amiga independently makes some ports available
for use under Amiga Unix (System V, Release 4), notably GCC, which is
now the default compiler for Amiga Unix, and GNU Emacs.  These ports
are included with their software distribution.

The porting team for GCC maintains a mailing list based on the machine
lists.funet.fi in Finland.  The low-volume list primarily discuss
technical issues of the current and future ports and related matters.
For information on how to subscribe, send a e-mail message with a
contents of the words HELP and LIST on two separate lines...

	HELP
	LIST

...to the address mailserv@lists.funet.fi and you will receive the
information.  In the answer to HELP, look for the ``subscribe''
command. In the answer to LIST look for ``amiga-gcc-port''.  The
subject line of the message is ignored.  Mailserv is an automated mail
message handler, so don't expect it to answer questions.  For
information on mailserv itself, contact Matti Aarnio
<mea@nic.funet.fi>.  For further information on the GCC port and
related projects subscribe to the amiga-gcc-port mailing list as
described above or write to Leonard Norrgard <vinsci@nic.funet.fi>.
For further information on GNU Emacs for the Amiga, write to Mark D.
Henning <henning@stolaf.edu>.

I'd like to thank Markus Wild, Ray Burr and Sam Rushing who all have
contributed and continues to contribute to this project in a major
way. Thanks!

	FTP sources for Amiga ports of GNU software:

	In Europe:
	ftp.funet.fi (128.214.6.100): ~pub/amiga/gnu and subdirectories.
		Log in with user name "ftp", enter your full e-mail address
		as password.

	In the USA:
	titan.ksc.nasa.gov (128.159.4.20, 128.159.1.1):
		~pub/amiga and subdirectories.
		Note: Titan is a VMS machine. Log in with user name
		"anonymous", enter your user id as password. Once logged
		in change directory with "cd amiga", etc.

	Also in the USA:
	karazm.math.uh.edu (129.7.7.6):
		~pub/Amiga/Gnu and subdirectories (note the capital letters)
		Log in with user name "ftp", enter your user id as
		password. Use only after 5pm and before 9am CST, please.


